{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Consolas;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Consolas-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15480\viewh11640\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 BEES ARE IMPORTANT TO THE SUSTAINABILITY OF AGRICULTURAL AND ECOLOGICAL SYSTEMS\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 Almost all flowering plants, such as food crops, depend on pollinators. \
\
At least 1/3 of what we eat relies on animal pollinators, such as honeybees.\
\
MYSTERIOUSLY VANISHING BEES\
\
Clint is a commercial beekeeper with healthy beehives. He offers the beehives\'92 services as pollinators to growers of a variety of crops across the United States. While his honeybees were pollinating cotton fields in Texas, they 'collapsed' mysteriously\'97the bees abandoned their beehives and did not return.\
\
As the mysterious collapses persisted and intensified, bee researched termed it \'91colony collapse disorder\'92 or CCD. By 2006, beekeepers (commercial and recreational) in the United States had lost between 15% to 75% of their beehives due to CCD.\
\
THE CCD CONTROVERSY\
\
Stakeholders, including as researchers, beekeepers, crop growers, government regulators, and agrochemical companies, have different understandings of what CCD is, what causes it, and what should be done about it. Most agree that we do not understand why beehives become susceptible to CCD in the first place.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 GAME: CREATE YOUR OWN EXPERIMENT\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
You are a honeybee scientist. You are interested in investigating the link between newer systemic pesticides and CCD. You need to design your next experiment.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Test **one** direct causal factor or test **multiple** indirect factors?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 one\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 You chose one.\
\
Testing a direct, causal effect emphasizes precision and control, rather than reflecting nature\'92s complexity. Now, you need to decide the level of pesticides you will expose the bees to.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Test a **high** or **low** dose of pesticide?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 low\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 You chose low.\
\
Low doses model the likely exposure bees have on agricultural fields. You may perform your study in a laboratory setting or in fields and bee yards.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Will the experiment take place in a **lab** or **field**?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 field\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 You chose field.\
\
While field studies may provide more realistic conditions, you will need to seek experimental control of all potentially confounding environmental variables. For example, consider how you might keep the honeybees in your control plot from traveling to the treated plot?\
\
Type **next**\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf2 next\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 You chose next.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Experiment Results:
\f0\b0  no effects were observed in bee colonies exposed to field-realistic (low) dosages \

\f1\b Critique From Stakeholders:
\f0\b0  skeptical of reliability since bees experience a vast amount of environment variability in field studies\
\

\f1\b Do you want to **end** or **restart** game?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 end\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 You chose end.\
\
Game over.\
Here are your methodological choices:\
\
['one', 'low', 'field', 'next', 'end']\
\
This game was based on and inspired by the book 'Vanishing Bees: \
Science, Politics, and Honeybee Health' by Suryanarayanan and Kleinman.\
}